accessing-rql/run.md, before:

---
layout: api-command
language: Ruby
permalink: api/ruby/run/
command: run
related_commands:
    connect: connect/
    repl: repl/
---

# Command syntax #

{% apibody %}
query.run(conn[, options]) &rarr; cursor
query.run(conn[, options]) &rarr; object
{% endapibody %}

<img src="/assets/images/docs/api_illustrations/run.png" class="api_command_illustration" />

# Description #

Run a query on a connection, returning either a single JSON result or
a cursor, depending on the query.

The options can be:

- `use_outdated`: whether or not outdated reads are OK (default: `false`).
- `time_format`: what format to return times in (default: `'native'`).
  Set this to `'raw'` if you want times returned as JSON objects for exporting.
- `profile`: whether or not to return a profile of the query's
  execution (default: `false`).
- `durability`: possible values are `'hard'` and `'soft'`. In soft durability mode RethinkDB
will acknowledge the write immediately after receiving it, but before the write has
been committed to disk.
- `group_format`: what format to return `grouped_data` and `grouped_streams` in (default: `'native'`).
  Set this to `'raw'` if you want the raw pseudotype.


__Example:__ Run a query on the connection `conn` and print out every
row in the result.

```rb
r.table('marvel').run(conn).each{|x| p x}
```

__Example:__ If you are OK with potentially out of date data from all
the tables involved in this query and want potentially faster reads,
pass a flag allowing out of date data in an options object. Settings
for individual tables will supercede this global setting for all
tables in the query.

```rb
r.table('marvel').run(conn, :use_outdated => true)
```


__Example:__ If you just want to send a write and forget about it, you
can set `noreply` to true in the options. In this case `run` will
return immediately.


```rb
r.table('marvel').run(conn, :noreply => true)
```


__Example:__ If you want to specify whether to wait for a write to be
written to disk (overriding the table's default settings), you can set
`durability` to `'hard'` or `'soft'` in the options.

```rb
r.table('marvel')
    .insert({ :superhero => 'Iron Man', :superpower => 'Arc Reactor' })
    .run(conn, :noreply => true, :durability => 'soft')
```

__Example:__ If you do not want a time object to be converted to a
native date object, you can pass a `time_format` flag to prevent it
(valid flags are "raw" and "native").  This query returns an object
with two fields (`epoch_time` and `$reql_type$`) instead of a native date
object.

```rb
r.now().run(conn, :time_format=>"raw")
```

Commit message:

Add noreply to run options Closes #330

accessing-rql/run.md, after:

---
layout: api-command
language: Ruby
permalink: api/ruby/run/
command: run
related_commands:
    connect: connect/
    repl: repl/
---

# Command syntax #

{% apibody %}
query.run(conn[, options]) &rarr; cursor
query.run(conn[, options]) &rarr; object
{% endapibody %}

<img src="/assets/images/docs/api_illustrations/run.png" class="api_command_illustration" />

# Description #

Run a query on a connection, returning either a single JSON result or
a cursor, depending on the query.

The options can be:

- `use_outdated`: whether or not outdated reads are OK (default: `false`).
- `time_format`: what format to return times in (default: `'native'`).
  Set this to `'raw'` if you want times returned as JSON objects for exporting.
- `profile`: whether or not to return a profile of the query's
  execution (default: `false`).
- `durability`: possible values are `'hard'` and `'soft'`. In soft durability mode RethinkDB
will acknowledge the write immediately after receiving it, but before the write has
been committed to disk.
- `group_format`: what format to return `grouped_data` and `grouped_streams` in (default: `'native'`).
  Set this to `'raw'` if you want the raw pseudotype.
- `noreply`: set to `true` to not receive the result object or cursor and return immediately.


__Example:__ Run a query on the connection `conn` and print out every
row in the result.

```rb
r.table('marvel').run(conn).each{|x| p x}
```

__Example:__ If you are OK with potentially out of date data from all
the tables involved in this query and want potentially faster reads,
pass a flag allowing out of date data in an options object. Settings
for individual tables will supercede this global setting for all
tables in the query.

```rb
r.table('marvel').run(conn, :use_outdated => true)
```


__Example:__ If you just want to send a write and forget about it, you
can set `noreply` to true in the options. In this case `run` will
return immediately.


```rb
r.table('marvel').run(conn, :noreply => true)
```


__Example:__ If you want to specify whether to wait for a write to be
written to disk (overriding the table's default settings), you can set
`durability` to `'hard'` or `'soft'` in the options.

```rb
r.table('marvel')
    .insert({ :superhero => 'Iron Man', :superpower => 'Arc Reactor' })
    .run(conn, :noreply => true, :durability => 'soft')
```

__Example:__ If you do not want a time object to be converted to a
native date object, you can pass a `time_format` flag to prevent it
(valid flags are "raw" and "native").  This query returns an object
with two fields (`epoch_time` and `$reql_type$`) instead of a native date
object.

```rb
r.now().run(conn, :time_format=>"raw")
```
